# AlgoTrading-ETL-Model-Test-Bot

This project is composed of a series of tools made for the purpose of finding a trading strategy and deploying it using a trading bot. There are 5 programs inside the folder

1 - Importer

This tool connects to the Binance exchange and downloads a dataset based on the defined configuration inside the ST_Config.py file. To use it configure ST_Config and execute Importer.py.

2 - Modeler

The modeler tool can be executed from the file ST_Modeler.py and configured in ST_Config.py. This tool will import a dataset that had to be previously downloaded using the Importer tool. Since the program will look for this file the importer configuration should not be changed as those values will be used to look for the file and use it or modeling. References for each parameter are inside the file.
The tool will try random parameters and combinations of indicators on the dataset to find a good strategy based on the chosen criteria. Every time it finds a better result it will add a new row to the exported file. If the program stops the current score will be stored inside the .pkl file for when the program restarts. To completely reset the program and start with a different dataset output files should be deleted, moved from the folder, or renamed.
The output .csv file "TA Results" can be opened to check for the indicators and results of the testing of each strategy and also to find the discovered combination of indicators used and its parameters by looking at the corresponding columns.

3 - Tester

The tester will share its configuration with the modeler and importer so values should be consistent across the tools to avoid problems when importing. Again configuration is inside ST_Config.py. This program can be executed from the ST_Tester.py file.
This program will find the best discovered strategy from the .csv output file of the modeler and test it in a different dataset if it has been imported or it can use the same dataset if a test portion has been reserved by adjusting the md_end/mdstart dates and td_start date correctly. If different files have been imported for modeling and testing then for the program to work the importer configuration parameters should match those of the tester file that has been downloaded and the configuration parameters of the modeler should match those in the name of the "TA Results" file where the strategy is being imported.
The tester goes through time portions and up to a certain number of subsequent time portions that can be adjusted in the configuration. Is important to always check that the index and timeframe  of each of the datasets we are using encompass the dates we are setting and to calculate that the portion time windows multiplied by the number of portions added to the start date (td_start_date) don't exceed the time limit of the dataset which we are testing the strategy.

4 - Trader
This program which can be executed from the ST_Trader.py file and configured in ST_Config.py is basically a trading bot that will connect with the Binance exchange and trade based on the best strategy taken from the "TA Results" file generated by the modeler tool. In order to work the c_config.py file must be filled with the correct API keys from Binance exchange and Telegram Bot as well as the chat id of telegram. 
The program will trade on margin with no leverage so a Binance account must be first set up and a minimum amount of money should be placed on the margin account in the correspondent base asset of the strategy we modeled (Ex: USDT, TUSD, BUSD, etc). As always Is important to maintain consistency in the ST_Config.py file to avoid errors since this tool will try to import the strategy file based on the parameters defined for the tester as it considers its output. 
In order to restart the program from the initial state the status.pkl file should be deleted and the value should be transferred to the base asset by using the Trader Fix.

Warning: Once executed correctly the tool will use the whole sum of money that exists in the Binance margin account of the user, so trade at your own risk. While I have tried and sometimes seemed like I've succeded I never found a profitable trading strategy probably because technical analysis by itself doesn't work. These programs are for educational purposes only.

5 - Trader Fix

When the Trader program is stopped it's usually caught in a state where it has bought something or it has taken debt. This program which can be executed from the ST_Trader_Fix.py file is used to place the correspondent orders (sell or repay) in order to go back to the initial state in which the Trader program can be restarted, which means by having all the value in the form of the base asset (BUSD, USDT, etc) and by canceling any debts. 

6 - Legal 

6.1 Proper Use: Gustavo Rabino (hereinafter referred to as "the Developer") provides these programs for your use. The programs are subject to the terms and conditions of the license agreement contained in the accompanying license file. By using these programs, you agree to abide by the terms of this license agreement.

6.2 Improper Use: The Developer does not condone or support the improper use of the Program. Improper use includes, but is not limited to, any use that violates applicable laws or regulations, infringes upon intellectual property rights, or causes harm to individuals or entities.

6.3 No Responsibility: The Developer disclaims all responsibility for any improper use of the Program by any party. You acknowledge that the Developer is not liable for any actions, consequences, or damages resulting from the improper use of these programs.

6.4 License Agreement: To understand the rights and restrictions associated with the use of the Program, you must carefully read and comply with the license agreement contained in the license file accompanying the Program. If you do not agree with the terms of the license agreement, you should not use these programs.

6.5 Contact Information: If you have any questions or concerns regarding these programs, the license agreement, or this disclaimer, please contact the Developer at gusrab@gmail.com

By using the Program, you acknowledge that you have read and understood this disclaimer and the associated license agreement. You agree to use the Program in accordance with the terms and conditions specified in the license agreement.

Gustavo Rabino
20th of October, 2023
